Go for it.
Good evening, everyone. I'd like to welcome you to,
the regular November meeting on November 12 for the end of your board of education.
>> I have much else to say with the pledge of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of The United States Of America,
>> each of the republic for which it stands, one nation under God can be indisible with liberty and justice for all.
We'll
start out, with comments from the public.
Trying to keep it, to items on the agenda and bring that through. Thank you.
Let's see. Oh,
Okay.
I'll do it. Thank you. Let's see now.
Good. Bye.
Holly?
Good evening. I'm good.
Hey.
Sharon?
Nothing at this time. Thank you.
Hi.
Missus Hopkins?
All set. Thank you.
>> Doctor Son?
Was that me? Maureen Sullivan?
Sure. Sorry. I I heard part of my name. I am all set if that was me.
Amber?
All set. Thank you.
Kim?
All
set. Thank you.
And Liz?
Okay for now. Thank you.
>> Okay.
Did I miss anyone?
Okay.
So
we'll start with communications.
Does anyone have any
forward communications that we need to
add?
>> You guys all received the forward communication that we received from Jeff,
So there's just no reason to read it.
>> But I do wanna acknowledge because it does it does address a couple of the other
communications that we've gotten in the past.
The request was four bits of information, four spreadsheets to be filled out.
I did respond and,
let Jeff know why those four spreadsheets of information could not be filled out,
and included the rules about
FERPA,
FOIA,
and
HIPAA
>> with that. Do you wanna talk about that now, or do you wanna talk about it when we go to the financial details?
>> I think, like, I I
mean, sure. I'll go through it. No. No. I I I I requests that are made, so just so that people know who do communicate with us then, any of the requests that are made that we can't honor because I know this has come up with some board of finance things as well.
FERPA, which is the Family Educational Rights of Privacy Act as it pertains to communications,
any financial information for school
related items
that include tuition payment records, financial aid details, billing statements, and records that show who paid or didn't pay tuition
are protected under FERPA.
And so if I receive a quest a request that asks for those specific details,
I will respond, but I can't respond.
The FOIA,
the FOIA, anything that's confidential that can't be released to the public,
that falls under the FOIA rules pertaining to student records,
again,
will not be released.
Under HIPAA, one of the requests asked for, somebody's insurance information.
And under FOIA and HIPAA,
which teachers are enrolled in a town's insurance plan is protected,
what coverage they have,
who they insure,
and whether or not they decline it is protected information.
So,
I just wanted to make sure that we,
you know, did acknowledge the communication that came to all of you and the fact that I did respond with the inability to give out that details
information.
>> And
and just to confirm, that type of information when we have a yearly audit is is, like, the total tuition or whatever is reviewed by the auditor as part of the whole Yes. Audit done on the school and the office. Yes. Mhmm. Okay.
>> So
when I sent you the request, I definitely didn't ask for any student information. I I listed out student one through 64.
That's still identified. Just it's not identified. It did it is How do you guys do a data dump? When you guys do information and you're sitting there going back and forth and speaking between state agencies and everything else, you redact the information. All I'm asking for, the information. It's common sense. I don't understand how this board could have done an analysis of the,
pre k program and not being costly to the town without getting the details.
>> So so I understand. With all due respect, I would say that I'm relying on the auditor that the town and the school pay to go through all of our financials. Mhmm. Are you suggesting that the auditor is is somehow
>> lying or that we're trying to hide something from the auditor? The auditor again, I'm a I'm a CPA, so I'll I'll sit there and go. I I wouldn't ask you a veterinarian question, but I'll take the accounting question. Yeah. Right? He is not going through and looking at your transactions that way. He goes to your group he goes to your group, and he asks for details,
and he sits there and sees what he needs. If he can sit there and see your deposits, the total, everything, no problem.
But what I'm asking for are the details who support the entire program being no cost to the community. That's it. I'm not asking for people's details,
but it is pertinent. It is pertinent just so you understand it, and and we can go
>> And I don't think knowing so on your sheet that you sent, just so that everyone is aware that didn't receive it, that is not on the board. And the reason I sent it to the entire board is student number. You asked for what town they were from. I wanna know if they're in town. For what tuition they paid. Well, I So that that information, like, if you filled just that information out in that spreadsheet with the number of kids that we have, that is identifiable
>> in itself. Then I'll let you I'll sit there and go. In town, out of town. I don't need to know what town. Of
>> has identified work. Jeff, the one thing that I will say is
in addition to the auditor, I am the chief executive officer of this school district. Understood. I sign off on all of the state reports. Yeah. So, yes, the state of Connecticut relies on the 158
superintendents
who sign off on Taylor's work, on the finance office work, on all of that, and that is sufficient.
So
they allow all of us within the house the rights to our educational records.
But as I said, HIPAA
and FERPA and FOIA protect the rights of us giving this information to have pass related people not in the educational community. So I know it's not the answer you were hoping to hear, but that's the fact. But I'll sit there and tell you, this board, these members are your boss. And without the details that I'm asking for, they cannot truly evaluate the program.
Can I ask you a question, Annette? Yeah.
>> If I give if I give you a total number Yeah. Tuition and a total number of students, you have an average tuition per student. How is that different?
How is that different than having each child's pay? You understand Because I need to understand in town out of town.
>> For what I'm attempting to do, that's what But you need to talk me. To verify that this program is no cost to the community. Valerie, as it stated it many times not Here.
Here. We'll go we'll go we'll go to this. And then I'm gonna I'm gonna actually ask that we move on because we've addressed Of course. Because we did this last time, and I mean of the agenda. It's a point of order, Jeff. This is a presentation, and it's not the time. Then I'll wait for the financial I'll wait till we get to the financial pitch. Okay. We're gonna move on then. Yeah. It's fine.
>> K.
Do we have student celebrations or other celebrations for tonight? I do have one. So the
>> house of altruismo.
They are the house of givers. That's what they're known for. So the two sixth grade house leaders this year, Hudson and Emma,
got to present a check for $506.62
today to Joan Sousi of the Andover Food Pantry.
So they ran the pennies for the pantry fundraiser.
Oops. Sorry. Admit.
Which was very exciting. So they,
collected you know, all the kids, of course, donated and collected, and then they got to present that check. So that was very exciting.
>> We have a second one.
Julie,
the music teacher,
put in for corns for kids grant, and we got, a flute.
So that's about a $500 instrument that will be awarded to us. So we're very proud of her for putting that in. Is that the horns for kids? Horns for kids. Yeah. No. I'm
fine,
Caitlin. That's fine. Transitions, mom.
>> But, yes, she specifically had put in for a for a flute, and we're getting a flute. So thank you, Julie. That's cool. We
>> have approval of minutes from our last regular meeting of October 8. Make a motion to approve the minutes from our meeting of October 8.
Would anyone take the second?
Okay.
Any
discussion?
>> No? K. All in favor?
Aye. Aye.
Zero
zero.
And
then we have opportunity to add or delete agenda items.
I would like to propose, as everyone can see, we don't have a very full board here tonight.
Celeste
has left us as she served out for time.
Eric is not here, and Jerry is also not here.
So I I think just in the interest of everyone and in allowing our meeting board members
to take part in the discussion, I'd like to move item eight c
to next month. Would
anyone like to second that? Second.
>> Since
they're both here, Sharon and Marcy, will make sure that you received a full copy of the nine thousands so that you can read them between me and this. It'll be on.
They probably need a cave Yeah. Packet too with the patch.
>> Sure it'll be exciting.
No. It's exciting. It's very exciting.
>> In terms of reports,
really, the only thing that I have to report is that we all know we had elections on November 4,
and those have taken place.
And currently,
we will have
Sharon Zigbrock joining us and Mercy joining us.
Jerry is rejoining us,
and then we will have Eric Becker's seat up on December 1
with opportunity to try.
>> So
a couple things. First of all, we
do have the sign ups completed
for the
board
conference next week.
And I have Shannon down. I have Kate down,
and I have,
no.
Let's see. Who's the third one? Oh. Mary. Sharon will be attending. Okay. Marcy can't attend, unfortunately,
abruptly, but
we we have those three
on there. And remember, that's next Friday and Saturday for whichever day you guys signed up for. Should be fun. I think there's 400
Florida that have those throughout
the state that are signed up. So
let's see. After school grant, up and going. We've got some programs already in place.
We're still working on whatever the adjustments are because of the loss of funding.
So they will work with us to adjust the number of kids, the number of days with the paperwork that are required to make sure it gets funded for the following year. So I'm working on that with the liaison that they've assigned to us.
We did have the reduction in,
IDEA and title funds. But, actually,
for this district, it wasn't as bad as it was for other districts. It was the 611, 619.
I think when they did the recalculation,
they must have done it after October 1 when they sent us that email.
Because by doing it after October 1, I actually think we wound up with one more or two more kids that qualified
because one of our areas went down by a few $100,
and then the other area went up. So we have a couple of $100. I think it was, like, $250
more
than what we had before. And I can tell you even when I did this, you know, for my my other district, they got a lot less. And my colleagues told me that they got a lot less too. So that must be the reason for us. So I'm not complaining. So I real quick put it back in the system, and they approved it. So we're good. So,
if you do see that or talk to board members,
especially at the conference where they do talk about the reduction, just know that we are lucky enough that we didn't see a significant reduction at all to either one of those. So that's good.
Let's see. The only other grant information on there is the seed grant.
And there has been
there had been a little controversy in the state with the seed grant,
and it's because the seed grant I mentioned last month, the seed grant was funded to towns,
to the actual town municipality,
which is not usually how they do the
majority of the grants.
Usually,
it is entities that apply. So if you think about it in the state of Connecticut, we have a lot of regional school districts.
And so, for example, I just mentioned IDA and Title. They get their own at Parish Health, at RAM,
at, you know, region ten. Like, anybody that is just middle and high school, they get their own for every other grant.
And they don't need to divide that by a k 12. They keep it if they're seven twelve, they keep it seven twelve. If they're just nine twelve, they keep it nine twelve. So it's not ever been an issue before.
This time, when they gave it to the towns,
they said, here's your allocation,
Andover, Heber, and Marlborough.
And, of course, all of the towns, you know, we decided what we're gonna do with it. It is not a,
supplantable
grant. It's a supplemental
grant. So it couldn't be anything that was in your budget anyways.
So once all of the districts,
kind of pretty much decided what they were gonna do and that it was not a large amount of money,
decided what they were gonna do with it, and in some cases, districts hired too knowing they were getting that money.
Then there were a couple of regional
districts that said, well, what about ARMA?
And they were like, you're not really in that this time. And they did have a couple of conversations with us. And the state said,
well, towns could decide if they want to to divide it k 12.
And some of the regional
superintendents had conversations. Ours I've
Ram's superintendent had a conversation with myself and and
Marbro.
And we kind of all said, like, sorry. But we're gonna have to ask the state to take care of that for you because we've, unfortunately, already got ideas on our money. And in the case of one of our neighbors, they had already allotted it up.
So
that was a difficult conversation.
I represent on one of the committees, the small town part time super. So
most of those are elementary school districts.
And so I did speak with the CABE,
you know, liaison,
And I said, this is a difficult situation because you're pitting districts against each other in some cases by saying, well, just go ask them if they wanna share it. If they wanna share it, great. If they don't wanna share it, they don't have to. And so
was a person at the state that sat with a couple of those superintendents
and said, like, well, if you're sending districts
already have a formula
for what they use
for
dividing up ECS dollars, for example,
Just go ahead and use that formula.
Well, the problem is most small districts don't because
ECS doesn't nearly cover
the cost. And so the $2,000,000, for example, that Ann ever gets, it it goes into the general fund. And just as long as that money is used for education,
it's not separated by a 186 kids here, a 128 kids there just isn't.
So
that really wasn't a solution even though there was a suggestion. The other factor for a regional high school to consider
is that
we all share in a levy,
but they don't separate
by students.
But this is special ed money, by the way.
We don't separate out special ed student by town.
So,
hypothetically,
if there's a 100 special ed kids at RAM and
90 of them live in Hebron and 10 of them live in in Marlborough, and we don't have any,
We don't ever know that when the money gets charged to us for the budget because it doesn't get separated out like, oh, well, Hebron has 90 of them, they're paying more.
Nope. That would be crazy to do. That absolutely would be crazy. So all of the special ed costs for RAM in this case, so that's our school,
are in one pot, and we pay our 17%.
They pay their 51%. It doesn't matter what town
those special ed kids live in.
So to try to use a formula that then says,
well, when you look at the seed funding from the different towns,
we'll just simply say, if 90
of them are Hebron, Hebron owes us for 90 kids. If none of them are Andover's, Andover doesn't owe us any other seed money. And if Marlborough has 10, then they owe us a certain percentage.
That wouldn't be fair since we don't divide
by town the special education costs
at the middle and high school. It's all lumped into RAM's costs. And the state didn't tell
any town how to divide the money? No. But what they did say too, there were three
specific
regional superintendents
that did say, well, I wouldn't be doing my due diligence if I didn't try. And they met with a specific person at the state, and the state said, well, you'd look at how your town divides your money.
And
like I said, I personally spoke on behalf of all of the smaller districts because I needed them to understand that we don't have a formula for that in most of our towns and that we're not an oddity in Andover. A lot of small districts don't already have one of those formulas.
And I don't think they realize that
at the middle and high school level, all the special ed costs are calculated together and then just divided by the levy. I don't think they understood that either. So
so that that was difficult. So will it get fixed for next year? If there's funding next year for everybody, I assume it will get fixed.
But for this year,
Hebron, Marlboro, and myself have told, you know, Ram that we we just can't give that money up. You know? That if they if they want to,
they should talk to the state. And the state in the past has done set asides.
Do you guys remember who were on the board in '21?
Every district got COVID relief money but five of us,
and we were one of them. And I had to go to Joe Courtney's office with the other four and say, we want our money. And they did. They did fix that because they had advertised
that everybody was getting it. And so they did fix that and wind up finding a set aside money.
So they might do that for those districts, but I just wanted you to know because I do know that it was in the packet at the board of selectman meeting this week,
the letter from Colin requesting that the town consider that.
So I wanted to explain it to you again
because
most of the districts are deciding that we just can't kinda part with that. So that's where we are with that grant, and we have received,
the first quarter of that month.
So that's there.
Let's see. So that's that one, that one, that one. Okay.
And then I did check with,
we spoke the last meeting about finding out more information about that energy audit that we had. I did speak with the guy as I said I would, and he is available for January.
As we said, we didn't wanna do December. So in January,
it'll it'll probably be Zoom maybe
instead of in person, but he will come to discuss what our options are if we wanna consider that Eversource
opportunity.
So that's all I have.
Yeah. Alright. Yep.
>> I start saying this every month. I'm not gonna take too long, but a little bit. Okay.
So first, on the enrollment,
since it was printed, we have two new elementary school students, so that's exciting.
So we're at 251. So I just wanted to,
right, yep, they're at 249. Now we're at 251.
>> Few more than what was printed. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yes.
>> More as I showed you. Yeah. So we are that's exciting. So they have started
they started this past week. How many of those are which grades are they in? Second and sixth. Sixth. Okay. Yep.
So
yeah, they've they've come they're coming from out of state, that's great. Two new elementary students.
We had our so
we've talked a little bit about early start and the new grant and the new local governance partnership and all of that. In December, I'm gonna share a little bit more because because that's one of those instances of the state is, you know, slowly giving us more and more information. But I just a couple things. We did hire,
the LGP, the local governance partnership,
hired, our parent ambassador.
So Doris Maldonado Mendez will be the Andover representative for our parent ambassador, and then Hebron in Lebanon also hired a parent ambassador.
ISKCON is the fiduciary for that organization,
so they're actually contracted to them. They handle all of that, and the state
pays directly into that fiduciary. Yeah. All of that.
But we Doris will be here in December, and we'll just share a little bit more about her purpose and kind of the work she's doing. The big work is really to do an audit of your town needs for kids zero to five.
So that's the purpose of our work this year is what does
what do the residents need in terms of supporting healthy families
from zero to five? And all three of our towns,
again, just to remind you, Hebrew and Lebanon because we're just used to talking about Marlborough, little different three towns,
are in what they call that childcare desert. So they want that audit to really make sure as some of the funding is gonna continue to move even down to toddlers.
So they wanna make sure that we're doing our work to know what the towns need. So that
we are planning to have our first
real meeting. We've had lots of the prework meetings, and so I will share when that date is decided, hopefully, next month to anybody who's interested in joining. Is there any chance that you guys would rotate the timing of when those meetings occur because they're not always in the middle of the day? Yes. They're gonna be there's so there's five. They're about every other month, so we're gonna rotate
place, town because there's three towns. Like, the Lebanon library, the public library, is actually the central point, I guess, based on, you know, Google Maps of, I guess, the three of us from different directions.
>> But we did talk about rotating towns and then some evenings, some daytime. Okay. So I'll I do know, like, some local Yeah. Childcare providers that would be interested. It's so hard. Right?
>> To based on Yeah. And we thing. Our last meeting, again, just trying to connect on who's gonna be on the team. We had
some of the daycare centers in Heber and Marlborough, Columbia, so that was great. But same for them. Right? It's just hard to send staff. So we're working through that. But I will keep as soon as the the dates are posted, I will send them to you guys and and out to families as well so that anybody who's interested in being a part of that work. So feel like we should maybe also ask the town to share that.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. On their Their town website. All of things. So as soon as soon
>> as we get that, hopefully soon, because I know even for us, everyone wants to plan and have all five dates so they can get them on their calendar. So
our liaison is working on that. So the liaison,
similar to what it used to be school readiness, we still have a liaison who comes to essentially audit the program and make sure
we're meeting all the standards. So we had our first monitoring visit two weeks ago.
And similar except, one of the main differences is now our audit our monitoring report is submitted directly to the OEC.
So before it was,
certainly, if there was any big concerns or if we were out of compliance, they would report. But now the whole report, good, bad, everything is submitted directly to the OEC. So there's a little more oversight,
which
is fine with us, but just a little bit different. So she was here. They are here a good long while from early morning till after school ended for 04:30,
to complete the
visit. So it it includes file reviews. So she has to do 10 file reviews to make sure that all the paperwork's done, all the tuition, all of that stuff. She does full classroom observations for at least an hour, so those are pretty significant observations.
And then she sits with me, building, walks, all of the things. So
into the good part. It was fantastic. We have zero areas of growth, which is amazing.
And she actually made a comment that I just wanted to share and I shared to the staff. She said, you know, it's crazy, Taylor. As I'm walking through your building, she said, not just in your pre k, but, you know, it's lunchtime, all the lunch weights, and everything. So there's just such a joy. Like, the school just sounded so joyful. It just said, people come and visit? Like, are you a school people come to visit? And I was like, we're about to be. Like, where do you put our name on the glass? Like, it was just such a nice compliment, you know, from someone who's outside. And if you've ever been in a lunchroom in in an elementary school, it's a little
fun. But
for someone from the outside to describe it that way, whereas sometimes on the inside, we're like, oh my gosh. Like, can they just use a fire voice? So that was just a cool not directly related to pre K, but it was really nice feedback. So that was great.
And so like I said, December will provide more information. Dora should be able to join us, and then we should have the agenda the meeting,
dates for you today.
Alright. And then I wanna get PD with PD on the November 5, so just a couple days ago. Half of our staff attended a conference in Rocky Hill on developing curiosity, so that was cool through play based and planned learning experiences. So our our pre k k went as well as a couple of elementary
who wanted to learn more about that and that they really enjoyed. And then the other we had some other things going on here. So we had two teachers. We're starting really at our oldest grades for social studies. I think I've mentioned before we have new standards. So missus Weber, our sixth grade teacher, and missus Lateska, our librarian, worked on starting to revise and revisit our sixth grade social studies unit. So we are going from the top down in that way. You can imagine why because that's the in older grades, there's a lot more focused time devoted to science and social studies. So we wanna make sure closest to RAM where they're really, you know, again, spending up to an hour a day, whereas aligned as possible. K four, it's a much more integrated approach across all the elementary schools in the state because our literacy program includes social studies and science topics. So we wanna make sure our fifth and sixth is really sound because they have science and social studies every day when they switch classes. So that work started as well.
>> Alright.
And then I wanna show you I'm just gonna share my screen.
>> So
I also just wanted to show you a little overview.
We so as you know, we've talked about the new literacy requirements this year and how schools had to adopt their official choices of what they were gonna do out of the seven choices that the state provided.
And I you know we're doing bookworms. I've heard you've heard me say that, but I just wanted to go through a little bit of more of what that looks like.
We're excited. Hebron and Marlborough have also chosen Bookworm, so that's great. A couple differences. It's a compendium, so there's a few different curriculum pieces they have as well, but overall, on the same page.
The state is also doing a study. They partnered with some universities,
couple three or four universities, and they picked 20 districts to do a study on how the rollout's going.
Guess who was picked?
I swear it's because we're first on the list. We start with a.
But we're excited about it. We'll take it. And so they are actually coming
researchers from the university and state reps, they'll be here next week, and they'll spend the full day doing observations in our k three. They also do teacher focus groups,
and we had to fill out surveys. So it was not an optional. It wasn't like, hey. If you wanna participate, we were chosen. So in light of that, I thought it would be kind of helpful to share a little bit more about what they're gonna see, and so you kind of have the same sense. And then, you know, certainly throughout the year, I can show some other areas.
So there's three components, and I think it's important to understand them because
shared re they're a little bit different than when in some ways, when we went to school, and in some ways, some of the same. You might nod and say, oh my gosh. We used to do that because some has come full circle. So shared reading is really about the time that kiddos are reading. So they're all reading one book together at their level, and they're reading it with choral reading.
So choral reading,
they're reading together. That's really focusing on fluency, confidence, comprehension, and supporting all learners. So that's an at grade level text. These are novels. So every day, they're reading
yes. They are in k and one, not novels. Let me Don't wanna just we're we are ahead of the time, but they're shorter books. But as they get older, these are thick novels that they're reading together out loud. And at first, it can feel a little odd. Like, why are we doing that? But, again, fluency is one of the five strands and a big predictor of reading success.
And we just I just have a couple twenty second tens.
So,
it's kind of
it's a little dramatic for our sake, but it's kinda fun to see our own kids do it just so you get a sense of sometimes they're partner reading. That's also building that social skill. We're looking at the same text together.
Then they'll go into partner reading. They're gonna reread the same thing they read, and that's their independent practice. Right? So they've read it with the teacher. Now they're gonna go off and practice together.
Sometimes kids read together poorly. Sometimes they're alternating.
The best part about this time, it's only about seven or eight minutes a day. However, later on every day, they're gonna write a journal entry. They're gonna answer some comprehension questions, and the teacher can be really targeted.
Hey. I want the two of you to go back and read page 10. Like, the answers could be page 10. Right? And so you could really focus in on what students need to reread because we think of that how hard it is. You might even remember yourself to get kids to go back to the book, right, to find their answers. They just wanna write whatever they thought at first. So this gives that focus time to make sure they're understanding and practicing that fluency.
And finally, the discussion. And so that's when you're gonna come back together, and kids are going to answer discussion questions. And this is where we've been doing the bulk of our work this year, and I mentioned accountable talk. So that's where students are learning to say, I agree with Brie because
so and so. Or She's always right. But
I respectfully disagree with Caitlin. And when you hear five year olds say that, it's, like, the most adorable thing on the planet. Or I'd like to add on. You'll hear that a lot in our classrooms. I wanna add on to what Mike is saying. And so they're learning those sentence stems to have productive conversations. Just own too. Are you hearing them? Oh my gosh. I love it. This is yes. This is just so
in this particular room, it's it's amazing. They lead the discussion. So we're encouraging teachers to step back out of the circle. They're practicing body language. They're practicing how do you not interrupt each other. It's been really cool to see.
Vocabulary is explicit. That's new, really, when you think about, our reading instruction across the state is
a lot of times we were under the impression if you just read a lot, you'll know a lot of words. That's not untrue. The more you read, sure, you're exposed to vocabulary, but it also has to be explicitly taught to students. Unfamiliar words, how to make meaning out of them, and how to use them. So that's a part of every day as well.
Then there's ELA. So commonly, we think of reading and writing. So you'll hear your kiddo or any of our Andover kiddos say shared reading and ELA. In ELA, there's also read alouds,
but those are at higher grade levels. So in third grade, they're gonna do a read aloud that's above their level because the teacher's reading it now. And that's what they're using to have those deep comprehension discussions, those really good thinking questions, and to help model
effective writing.
So that's this part, and these are our littlest guys.
And even them in pre k and k pre k does not use bookworms as a formal program, but we have very similar strategies. So here she is doing, a read aloud here.
And then the writing piece.
So kiddos do everything from partner writing at our youngest grades. Actually, whole group writing. We call it shared writing, so they'll make pieces altogether all the way to their own independent writing.
And so that's
always in the three genre, narrative opinion, and informational.
It's here. Kind of just the span
from first to fourth, and here's a fourth right bulletin board.
And then lastly, the third block is what we call DI, and that's the differentiated instruction. So every student is assessed and
needs a specific skill. Right? So some kids need to learn what an r controlled vowel does. So when you have a word like dirt, they need to learn that I r says er. Some kids still need to know a blend. They need to know that b l says bull. Right? Other kids are onto multisyllabic
words. Right? They need to be able to decode the word vocabulary.
Everybody needs something different. And, really, while, of course, there's average what you need at each grade, you'll see a wide variety, right, at each grade level. So this is a time where there's forty five minutes a day that the teacher meets with three small groups. The students also have independent reading, and they work on their daily journaling spots.
And this is first and third
and kindergarten.
This one makes sense.
We had to do a phonemic awareness. If you were on the board, at one point, we had some kindergartners come in and demonstrate this a few years ago. It was really cute. That's Heggerty. So that's our phonemic awareness.
So she says add at,
and now they have to go tad in case you couldn't hear them. So they're working on those initial sounds. That's kindergarten right now.
These are live and current, so you're in the rooms this week.
Go to my next one.
>> Foundations and new fly. So foundations is our phonics program. The state says bookworms, you need bookworms, you need phonemic awareness, Hegarty, and you need phonics foundations.
So this is really that word work. So you can see they're building words every day. They're hearing the letter sounds. They're looking for word patterns. You can see these cards in this picture.
So let's say w h whistle w, and that's how they start to learn keywords and recognize sound patterns.
Couple of our teachers are piloting UFLY that would replace foundations. The state says either are, an option. We've gotten some really great feedback from districts that UFLY is really pushing kids forward, particularly those with dyslexia and other reading disabilities.
So we are
highlighting this this year in
both my kindergartens and one first and one second. So that's exciting,
and they're doing a great job.
>> When would you guys make a decision to make that for next year or for next two years?
>> Yeah. Probably next year or next year.
So you can see he's manipulating the word. He's playing with letters, and it really is about play for kids, but starting to learn kind of how words are created.
Progress monitoring. So that happens every two weeks. So you can see oftentimes it's one on one where the teacher's working, and these are one minute assessments. This isn't we're testing kiddos all day long. This is one minute timed, and let's just see that you're making progress on the skill we're working on. In math, our progress monitoring is on the iPad or on the computer. And then in reading,
it's on the computer. We typically do it by hand and enter it in later because feels better to the teacher brain.
Whereas in math, the kiddo's also actually doing it right on the iPad.
And so that's our progress monitoring.
We use that to identify, of course, kiddos who need intervention,
kiddos who need to change our interventions, is that intervention working? So that happens, for any student performing below grade level, their progress monitored at least every two weeks. Some students performing at grade level, we call them sometimes cuspy. So there'll be a couple kids that are just hitting, and we wanna make sure they stay where they are, so they will also get some progress monitoring.
And last, but I just wanted to say because our pre k and k, it's a little bit different. They're building into curriculum.
We are still integrating super developmentally appropriate play. So there's writing centers.
There's magnetiles. All of these toys, so to speak, these play experiences are built into the literacy. So
they're writing about what they're doing. They're practicing in multimodality,
so they're in the sand, all of those things. So in our youngest grades,
a couple more examples,
that's happening as well. So they're using PLAY DOH, building their fine motor. And some kiddos, sure, they're ready to make letters, but others are just making balls because that's getting that those hands ready to hold a pencil.
Again, those fine fine motor, learning to use the drill,
and then dramatic play. So for example, in kindergarten, they just did a,
grocery store. They actually went to a grocery store on a field trip, and then they built grocery stores in their rooms. And so they're writing shopping lists. That's, you know, authentic writing to a kindergartner.
They're practicing. They have the newspapers, which is hard to find with the ads for food, let me tell you, so that kids can cut those out and say, this is what we're buying today. We don't make Jenny Morell our amazing early intervention specialist. She would never allow me to, like, bring in a purchased item. No. No. The kids make everything. Like, it's really
authentic to them, so that's pretty neat.
Just a couple pictures of that. So I just I know it was a couple minutes, but I just wanted to give you an overview of the so you had a full picture now that we're into into the year of our literacy program.
And and certainly, the board
would enjoy, I would plan to continue.
In December, I'd really like to do the same for our SEL. I mentioned we're gonna be doing those monthly check ins. We just completed our first one in October. Some really awesome data to share, and we'll have November as well. So I can give you a little update on where the kiddos are, as we mentioned about the student survey from last year, if you recall. And then in January,
do the same for math. And so you kinda get those three pictures.
And then we talked about, if we're still on board in February, being giving you a data report, more of that midyear, how are we doing in terms of that progress monitoring those,
assessments.
And then as we get to the
the end of the year doing some more of that STEM specials, just getting a view into all the different
areas.
That sound like a good plan?
Yeah. Awesome.
Questions?
>> Just one question for you. Yes. For sixth grade, that puts us at 29. Correct? Correct.
And what is the number that if we're over, we have to add another classroom?
One of our state. 30.
>> So if we have 30, it's okay. And if we have 31, it's not, or is it
>> By stature, you mean by, like, a lot? So the other thing is remember that Taylor and the team,
they have done an amazing job because they had to do it last year with fourth and fifth as well, of
making sure that there is enough small group and smaller sections going on. Our fourth, fifth I mean, our fifth and sixth grade teachers,
they see one another's classes because there's breakdowns.
So
the idea that 29 kids are together all day long for everything doesn't happen
>> because of how they have So there's there's four blocks. Two of the blocks, they're separated. Yeah. My concern was more from a budgetary standpoint. Like, should we be nervous about that we're gonna need to hire another teacher and split halfway through here? We could tell the realtors that we would like to enroll
>> Kids between the age of five and nine. But No. You know, I can't predict. Just keep it on my mouth. Normal it is it is and don't worry, Taylor said, oh my gosh. Valve is she's a sixth grader. And we're like, no. We're not gonna get this, and we've got this new family.
That is going out going into sixth grade, going into the middle school, and then the high school and kindergarten,
you don't usually
see December
through May
kids. Well, they're second grader here, though, and they were closing on a house. But
don't usually see that because families wait.
Mike's shaking his head. Like, most families know, like, the last thing you wanna do is have your kids switch schools, especially if they're going to be transitioning into those times when it is going into a new school,
like middle school or whatever.
In this case, it just they they needed to do it, because of the house situation.
But
I would be surprised if we got more than one more.
I would be surprised if we got one there since we're going in December, but I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed. Okay. Sixth grade one,
and we'll cross that bridge when we get to it. Yeah. We do know if you look at the fifth grade numbers there, we do know that that one,
has 25 now, the fifth and the fourth and 36 coming up. Because those are split,
those will stay split, and you will see that sixth grade in the budget for the fall. We we we talked about that last year. So
>> Yeah. We absolutely But some of that had to do with individuals within that
class.
>> Correct? So the fact that as a district,
this particular school,
keeping our numbers reasonable,
not too small, not too large, has to do with the makeup of the students in those grades as well. Yeah.
So
correct.
Other questions for any questions, Taylor?
>> Yep. Yeah.
K. We will move on to our financial report. So before Terry starts, this is the right time to introduce. If anybody was going, who's that lady sitting over here? You haven't had the pleasure of meeting Jodi Ann yet.
Jodi Ann, Teddy comes to us.
Highly recommended. I'm
very, very happy that we were able to reel her in. And you guys all know that Terry's time with us will get less and less as the year goes on as she trains Jodi, and Jodi's will get more and more. So welcome,
Jodi Ann.
Been a wonderful week and a half. Terry's amazing.
>> Everybody
is amazing,
so I'm very impressed.
I'm very happy to be here.
>> Thank you. And she's learning very quickly, so I'm excited about that. I'll tell you. I've worked in schools for over twenty years, and I never heard of Edmunds.
But
>> I think I'm getting it. She's catching on real quick. On. You would not be the first person to say that.
Oh gosh.
>> Okay. So after the enrollment report are all the financials,
which pretty much take up the rest of the packet.
The first two pages are the summary,
and then the following pages are the detail related to the summary.
We've also got some,
information
on preschool
for the end of October
after the
detailed general
fund report,
and then we have some bank statements
from
accounts that are held at the town.
Does anybody have any questions
on the general fund budget at the moment?
Can I go back to that?
>> Well, I'll do this perspective, like, the board event to address any concerns they might have with the budget. About the enrollment report?
Well, I'm sorry. Just so you understand, I am a board member. I just can't vote. I work for the board event. I am on Yeah. As a member. I'm a member of the Right. Right. But I'm I'm asking about if there's any questions in regards to the general fund.
>> I understand.
Just let me ask one question because it pertains to the rest of the stuff. Go ahead. Are the teacher numbers right? I just wanted to know that. Like, because I know No. I just corrected him. No. She Shannon just said that about four and the five should be two and two. Two and two. Okay. No. That's all I wanted to know. I didn't hear you. You didn't tell me. Okay. You just put her, and I said and I said this one's 2.
Is this this line she said? 22,
and Yeah. 333,
>> They're just teacher. No. No. No. No. I know. I was okay. I just I just I was looking at the agent, looking at your numbers, and everyone got them. Yeah. That's fine. So, Shannon, you can say it out loud because we should all hear her. Right? You know? Oh. Just say it. I know. Quiet.
>> So that's why I I just pointed out for next month. Yeah. K.
>> Now I can ask you some other questions if you don't mind. Well, I'd like to open it up to everybody right now. It's everybody. You can talk to I guess. No. No. No. No. If everybody else needs to ask questions, go ahead.
Anybody else? It's me? Okay. Go ahead. You can go first. Alright. Thank you.
I I two questions that I I really want before I I'll go into this one preschool side.
Which preschool one are you looking at? This one.
But what
This is the dated? Yeah. It's dated 10/31.
It says tuition, grants, tuition expenses.
Okay. Okay? Yep.
>> So
if you can explain to me the tuition side of this, the 247,986,
which is I'm I'm I'm assuming is the anticipated tuition revenue. Correct.
And you break it down by pre k tuition revenue, EarlyStar, and SmartStar. Correct. And are those,
are those EarlyStar and SmartStar tuition payments that the parents are making on behalf of those grants?
Yes. Okay. And when you do tuition, are you doing tuition on Excel spreadsheet? You're doing tuition on,
QuickBooks? What you on Edmunds.
You do the tuition bills and everything? Everything is done on Edmunds. K. Excellent. Alright. You can vouch. And then the early start and the smart start grants are the expected numbers that you're gonna get. The early grant information below? Yeah. And and total anticipated on the bottom left corner. On the bottom left. Yeah. Total anticipated.
>> Yes. That is what we're anticipating
to get from the state for early start and smart start. Okay.
>> Alright.
I I don't have any more questions on that at this time. And then just a question. You you show these in your packet?
Yeah. But why don't you show the board of education bank accounts and provide the reconciliations to the board so they can see?
>> This was just adding because we did had no idea that some of these funds existed. And just to keep us, everybody in the know,
these town held funds
>> were added to the packet for the board of ed's request and for their view. Every I have no problem with these. I think they should be in. Right. I think everybody should get it. What I'm asking is why is the school accounts not included in that? The actual bank statements?
>> The bank statements The board of Ed would like to see the bank statements. I mean, if I'm on the board, I don't know. Shannon, you can answer. It's been longer. It's we've never had the bank.
>> I I would I would think they would be a tremendous
>> value to the board members for oversight capacity. The the other accounts, those we just started last year because I requested to get them. Oh, I I have no problem with these. No. Nothing. We never had those before last year. So if you're asking about the difference between, like, those being on that versus like this, it's because that's what we got. Well, I guess my I guess my question my question ends up being more,
>> why wouldn't the board of education ask for the bank statements and the check registers and the bank statements so you could Why don't we need to have those yet? Because Because I've been out let me speak. I've been out here ten years. Mhmm. Right? I
trust our superintendent.
I trust our financial manager.
I don't wanna spend
five hours going over check registers,
bank statements.
I get this very detailed expense report every month.
I go over it very carefully.
I look at the prior month. I compare it to the prior month.
Don't know what other board members do or do not, but I don't feel the need to have all that. And I feel very judged and criticized every time you've spoken tonight
to the effect that why don't you ask for that? Why aren't you asking for that? So I wanted to speak to that because
I trust our professionals,
and I don't feel the need to micromanage.
You said our employee is a superintendent. That's correct. Another employee of hers is the financial manager. Mhmm. Right?
On the board of selectmen, you sit in charge of the town's budget,
and you may feel the need to oversee all that the treasurer does.
If that's your choice, that's your prerogative.
But I've been here ten years.
I've been through every auditor's report also, and I haven't felt the need for more information.
If other people here feel the need for more information,
they can certainly ask for it. We can ask for it at any time. And
sometimes I don't wanna do my packet every month. Jeff,
>> I I I always feel like you are insinuating that I'm not doing my job. Here's the thing. If you go through what is reported at the board of selectmen every month on the financials,
it's different information.
So our board gets
all of the actuals for each,
account here
every month in this comprehensive report.
When
the town side and you're not wrong. You guys do it the way you want. There is no when you look at the salaries that are reported on the town side,
what the board of selectmen decides is they don't need to see that. So when you list out your employees, it says zero next to their name as to what they're paid. Mhmm. Because you guys don't need that. And that's fine. I'm not here to judge your financials
either. That works for you guys. But our board here then knows how much we've spent to date on salaries
because it's in this version.
So over the years, we have adjusted
what the board has seen. It's what they need to see. So it's different information that's reported.
There's no actuals for your departments that are reported on a month to month basis
because
you guys don't need it. That's good. Get the monthly spending, and they know if they wanna know from last month to this month what the difference in spending is on a line, they see it right there. So it's not that we're doing it wrong. It's not that you're doing it wrong. It's this information is valuable, so we report it this way. And the way it's reported to the board of selectmen is valuable to you for for what was the town administrator,
and you guys like it that way. So I do take a little bit of offense when you're like, you should tell Val to do this is what works and gives us the information, and what you guys do is not more information. In some respects, it's less information that's provided to you. A lot less. It's different information,
though, and it's what you guys require.
K. So thank you, Shannon, for that because this is what works for us. That is very comprehensive, and it tells them where every dollar is gone,
how much is left in each account,
and so it is comprehensive.
>> I'd like to add something to that too.
Is your town treasurer ever since the last year and a half, I believe, or two years has been getting a copy of our bank statement every month along with the check registers. Yes. They have all of that, so I don't know why they're not sharing it with you. No. No. I have those. Okay. So I'm asking why the board I'm asking why the board never looks at shit. So I I don't I mean, I sign checks when when the when someone isn't available to sign them. Right? And I signed your checks. I I agree with you. But what I'm asking the I'm asking we look at that during meeting?
>> You don't have to look at it. What Valerie is saying is is this information is provided at the board of selecting meetings every month. Right? She may not see it in the same manner, but this information budgeted and actual spend is there.
What I'm asking on the opposite side is we also get all of the disbursements made out of that account. And I can just look through. I scan through it. I don't look in detail. We don't talk about it in our meetings. We look at it. And so what I'm asking is
if these bank statements are in there, why wouldn't some of the other information be in there? And, Shannon, you can sit there and say to me as a board member, you don't want it. Okay. And I can sit there as a as a member and say, it would make sense to me as a financial person to at least see it, to see the expenditures, like, to sit there and see what's going on. There's another sheet that's never even put on the This was given out. I don't know if you saw that. I actually a few months ago This is the summary of expenditures,
>> encumbrances,
everything we've talked about, all the money that was received. Yeah. So I asked a few I think in August we could start including this, because you did it for the end of the year. This is this is this particular report is done for the board of finance for the last year and a half, and it is shared with the town treasurer
for the last year and a half. This just got started putting with I was giving it to you guys first
>> before I share it with everybody, and that is the way I wanna do it because you need to see them first before anybody else. Okay. I mean, different levels of information because you, as a board, can ask different questions. That's all I'm after. And Yeah. And so I'm sitting there seeing these included
in your packet, and I'm asking a question why
the other bank accounts for the the the board of education and and tell me, what are all the bank accounts that the board of education controls?
If I understood it's your operating account, your grant account, your school lunch account Mhmm. And
the grant
what's the last one? Food service. Food service? Student activity. Student activity. Student activity.
Is that it? Four of them? And
all of those accounts are at
what back?
MT and Berkshire.
So MT and Berkshire. Okay.
>> M and T handles all the general funds, and Berkshire handles all the grant accounts. The pre k is part of the grants account,
school school's food service,
>> and student activities. So all your all your tuition money goes into your grant account? Correct. Because
>> that's where the other money comes from. It makes more sense to just pay it out of the Berkshire Bank account. Okay.
>> Please
for one thing, don't
I
don't want you to take offense to my questions and and what I'm trying to get to, but I am trying to do something related to the town and get a better understanding and more transparency between all our booths. Use that word because I I am I'm gonna use that word. Transparency
>> means that somehow
the information
that that is is there is is not being given. It's not accurate. It's not that's not true because you just even said every single month, it does go to the town, and you know that. So all of that information
because your first I mean, your town administrator signs all of our general fund checks. So That's correct. All of them are seen weekly.
Mhmm. So transparency is not the right word. Okay. Then why are detail?
No. No. They're the detail, again, is No. This is this is this is care. This is a level of detail. And I actually don't want us to to to get off the floppy map. But let me ask you a question. Why is it that, for example, why is it that the town does not require
all of that payroll information to be put in your packet? It's not in there. Why? Why next to everybody's name does it say zero? Because it's an ACH, and it's a lump sum, and it's on the list.
So all of the all of your numbers name, and then it says zero next to And
and and why? Because it hits the bank in one number. But why put their names in there and it says zero next to me? That's how since they're in translation,
it's how it comes in.
>> It's not as it's not as it's not as if the people are are eliminating the numbers. Can I ask that the two like, we need to stop this conversation? I'm sorry. You guys are, like we are really derailing the point of a board of education meeting. K? Well, listen. The board of education meeting is is education first and foremost, but you have a role and an oversight capacity related to the financial status. So does anyone have financial questions relating to the information that is presented in the financial
packets?
You know? One,
three,
>> and then two. Jeff, do you have other questions? No. Ask. Financial
>> need it to be. One just one last thing. With all due respect, Mr. McGuire,
I do take offense just like miss miss Bruno said earlier that I don't feel like you there's trust or that you think that we're lying about our numbers or we're covering stuff up. I don't appreciate that, and I'm just gonna put that out there.
I accept that.
>> So let's try let's try to work on a greater scale so that everyone can be on the same level of understanding, and we can have mutual respect.
Understood. K.
>> And, yes, we do look at stuff completely different than you guys do on the town side. Our budget is also completely different. Right? Like, when you talk about how you make a board of education budget and what we take out that the superintendent put in, we're not funding grants for a truck that you're gonna buy in ten years. We're funding
this year's tuition
or next year's
money for kids to be taught in school. There's not stuff that you can cut in the same way. So there's a lot that you can compare, and there's a lot that you can contrast between a town and a school. And, like, the whole point of us having those three boards in our town is so that they can all do independent jobs well and work together for the good of our town and our school.
>> I agree with you. And and you know and you know what? I haven't I haven't I haven't asked one question, negative question,
about any line item on your budget other than the pre k because I've and you know, Kaitlyn, I've been talking about the pre k for a long time. I've sent you and Valerie emails asking for information six months, seven months ago, and I didn't get anything from that. So so now why am I here? I'm here because I need to sit there and understand because
if you if you will go back to where I'm coming from,
this program is zero cost.
In the general fund. Correct? Correct. Zero cost. All I'm asking is is the the details
behind the zero cost. And that's why I provided you with my summary pages. That sheet. Okay. That's all of the money that comes in. Those are the expenses.
It is very clear on the bottom. K. I will Every month. Will sit there, and I will give you a
being an account, it's trust but verify.
I know no one might not like that. That's what I'm trying to do is My numbers are active. Okay.
And it depends upon how we all sit there and pile all the expenses together. No. It doesn't. Okay.
So if I have four teachers and I have benefits and expenses, are they included in this? I'm not answering that question. Why not?
>> Because of the the thing you said to us. Again, you are asking if there's four people in this building and for me to tell you the status of their medical.
>> I am not sharing that with you. That's against the law. Okay. I'll go to the state of Connecticut, and I will get an answer for what I need. Okay. Thank you. And then I'll come back to the board because I would rather not do a FOIA request
than just
stating it out.
>> Okay. Let's go. Okay. We're gonna move on.
Liaison reports. Does anyone have anything to report? Did you have a CIP meeting? We did. We went over a that
>> was given
into the whole court, the whole capital report. For the town? Yes. Yeah.
Anything
to come out of that?
>> There was a vote for which I was hung available because I had to go to another committee meeting at the same time. So we reviewed it, and then I have the release. But
thirty minutes follow-up and
>> know they're done. Does anyone have any other liaison reports?
Brie, are you gonna be a part of the the new
early start thing
as a liaison, or is that not a thing anymore? She can be once you know, when if I get dates, I'm sure she that's a way to commit.
>> We'll we'll have collections within months so we could go through that as a I'm hope hopeful by December, we'd have, like, a list of all the dates and times. In that way, if it doesn't need to be one set person, you know, you anybody is welcome, but certainly,
if someone would love to commit to all five Okay. They could. The answer is I have no idea.
>> But I will I will willingly be the new PTA lazy liaison
>> except I was not at the last meeting because I was on an airplane. So We planned all of the holiday things. Yep. That's the summary of PTA and for December.
>> So we'll move on to
AA,
solar and budget update. Do you guys have it in front of you? Those two things that were sitting in front of you. So
>> they're doing great.
If you guys have looked at it when you drive by, you'll see that it's coming along. We've actually included some pictures here. Because there's very much less. Yes. Very much less on the ground.
And they actually were working yesterday for the holiday too, so that's why I assumed. So the bulk of the install is gonna be complete in the next two to three weeks. It was a little slower than I think I anticipated at the beginning. I was like,
oh, yeah. It's gonna be done, like, right away.
And it was certain phases that were gonna be done right away. So the next two to three weeks, and then the electrical wire wrap up will be the end of the month.
They do need to have and this is what I'm trying to arrange,
and you'll see it on the email that I included right here.
Yeah. Yeah. Next to that one. I included the email where they were saying there has to be
a little bit of what they call a shutdown, integrate the new solar system with the utilities.
So I'm working with them now on a schedule that makes that work.
Once they are able to do that, which we're gonna try to do it, obviously, like, on a Friday after school through till Saturday
so that they can do that, and then we're not at all, put out by that little bit of shutdown,
just so that they can do that. The picture that they, sent is a nice one there. They showed me where the roof arrays are on the top,
and it shows you that directly under that bundled location below where it's classroom or cafeteria,
they did have to make some
slight change,
and I put this in there for you in terms of how they connect. It said right there, they may need to perform some work on the other side of the section because, they needed to know if there was a drop ceiling underneath those two locations.
There's a tech decking material that just me and Susan from a tip system that they're gonna put on that module rack. So it was not a major change of any way, shape, or form. It was a minor change,
just to the fastener there.
So that's where we are. It looks good. The pictures, you know, that I included on the back here for you
kinda show you a little close-up there exactly what that system looks like, what the arrays look like from the roof.
So
we're moving along,
and that's
very good.
>> So the reply on the email says two two to three weeks potentially?
>> Yeah. If give the date on the top now, we should be almost to the end of that first. So Okay. So hopefully two weeks from now, and then they'll do that shutdown. And then who's who does the inspection for the time?
I don't know who on the town site is. Is
it is that the one that's, like, the subcontracted
>> the guy that's from another town? Yeah. I don't know his name.
>> Do you know who it is? I do not know his name, but I'll get it for you. Does he go up and take pictures of everything? He'll walk around. He has he'll focus on the connections mostly. But he'll go up Like, he'll go group. Yeah. Okay. You should also talk to the rec commission about the the disconnect day. Oh, definitely. Once I have the schedule, I will let them know,
>> just in case there's something that's scheduled for that Saturday. Yeah. No problem. Thanks. I don't know how many hours they need or anything like that. So, you know, as soon as I'm waiting to hear back from them. They're trying to figure out what they can do that's a night or a weekend.
>> So I'm sure it's larger than a residential, but ours was about six hours.
>> Yeah. So as soon as I get some times from them, you know, I'll know more about that.
Does anyone have questions on solar update?
>> We've been very pleased. I will just say I've been in a lot of buildings with projects, and almost always every morning, you have to come clean up the cigarette butts. It's, like, just part. And we haven't had that problem. We've been very they've been Oh, Yeah.
You would think I know. But
if you have a child, and this is Dixon's class, you're getting the full experience.
I hope you can hear it and see it in a very exciting way.
But it was a good sport, so that class is really enjoying the experience.
It just happens to be where the that noise and view comes mostly in. Yeah. I hear a few. I asked you once in a like Yeah. The kids are enjoying it. It's exciting for them.
>> In terms of a bathroom project update,
we did get some written information
from,
but I
really want written information for comparables
to other
other
people's estimates for work before we say, like, oh, yeah. We're gonna go with this one.
So we're we're waiting for that. So
>> So are you saying there was no competitive bidding done? It doesn't
>> appear to be that way.
Not from what I've received.
>> K. And
when you signed the contract, Valerie, how did you sign the contract?
>> The only contract that we've signed to this point was the original contract for them to come in and get us up to.
Okay. Because the billing currently coming in is for I know. Set up to four. And just because the name on there says that
we are not starting construction yet, I've assured you of that on multiple occasions. I promise you that there is no construction that's occurred here. K.
Alright.
>> I don't have to find anything else aside from the initial contract. I've to stuck with them. Okay. And do we have
>> engineered drawings that can be shared?
Yes. We have. So it was back in July, yep, I believe. It should be No. But what I'm I'm after is if if Fuss and O'Neil has crossed the threshold, you should have stamped documents as to be final. They're They were shared with the member of the board of selectmen
>> and a member of the board of finance. They have already received them and commented back to me.
They understand that we will be and I have four for our board members here
and.
And, you know, as we move forward and get closer to having a meeting, then yeah. Like, they've already been shared, and they know what's going on. They know the time. Can you share it with me? Sure. You can take one of that. Absolutely. Appreciate it. Yep. Alright. Thank you.
>> Thank you. And I and I will say it from my own perspective just because, right, this has nothing to do with anything in my mail house. I'm frustrated if I have slower processes, but I understand that when you're putting money into something, like, I
like to make sure that the decision that's being made is correct and
the best and will last the longest, not just the cheapest or the most, like, great to get the right
solution.
K.
K. We'll move on to comments from the public on agenda items.
No. We'll have more comments next month.
So we said we'll
>> be at the table. The only thing that I was thinking about was, you know, the last thing you're talking about is the bathroom project, and and, you know, it's not not in the middle of the hospital. It is mine, and I'm so We're happy for it. And I'm I'm happy to to be here, and hopefully that I can.
Because, you know, contracting is is
is not an easy thing.
And a lot of times you get,
people,
contractors that will take advantage of you, particularly women, because they think they'll they'll be able to they'll take advantage of you, intimidate you, or do any of these things. And,
since I've been in that, I've been in this area for thirty five years, I know,
you know, how
difficult that can be sometimes, but also it can be very rewarding. That's
a lot of contractors are very helpful.
And,
you know, you just have to
kind of
thought that,
you know, relationship that you can have with them. And so I hope that I can help in that. We look forward to that.
Done? And also Yeah. Christina?
Looks like now. Holly?
I
>> would just mention that
the special ed and special services staff had an opportunity to participate
in the first of two parts that
of training with assistive technology devices,
and it's provided by NEET New England Assistive Technology,
and it is supported through,
State Department of Education. And, I think we all found it pretty useful today, and we will have the second part tomorrow.
>> Thank you, Kelly. Yes. I forgot.
Amber?
All set. Thank you.
Hopkins?
>> Thank you to all the board members. I appreciate everything you do for us.
Thank you.
Scott?
>> I'd like to make a comment
that I'm kind of appalled at the treatment of our first elect man.
He he's there asking some questions
that the whole town wants to know the answers to, and he doesn't get the answers.
I'm also
I can't understand why
there was no competitive bidding
on on this
on this the bathroom projects.
Here here we are, you know, a year into this, and and nobody nobody has
come up with anything till tonight. Everybody's
saying there's no competitive bidding. And you wonder why everybody's
wondering about what's going on and worried about this
and pointing fingers.
That's all I have to say.
>> Maureen?
I am all set. Thank you so much.
Lynn?
>> I I would also like to echo Scott's sentiment about
the attitude toward
Jeff's
questions. I I think
I find him to be very even keeled and respectful,
and I just don't think that's fair.
The other thing I'd like to say is
I too was really looking forward to tonight to getting some real
information
about this bathroom project that we haven't gotten anything about.
You say
that somebody on the board of finance has that.
I don't know when that happened.
But, anyway,
what did I wanna say about
I heard I heard a comment about a bill being paid,
but someone got cut off, so I didn't get to hear what that was. Something in regard to,
I don't know, a contractor or something connected to this project. I'd
an answer to that. And I'd also like to know
when we as
taxpayers
can expect a formal presentation
about the options,
what different options would are looking like they'll cost,
etcetera.
So I'm I'm glad, Caitlin, to hear that you're not comfortable
with making the decisions,
without more bids. I do appreciate that. But, it's been
quite a while, and I think the town
taxpayers
deserve a formal presentation.
>> So so I'll just answer briefly. We will have another committee meeting. Those are open to the public. So when the next committee meeting occurs, you're more than welcome to attend.
>> Yeah. Can I just make a comment about that? Because
I have not seen any committee meetings
publicized
for
and I've looked back so
far. To June.
>> I'm I'm sorry? Only one so far. I'm I'm gonna move on. We've had one so far, and it was in June. So.
Oh, okay.
I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
Does
anyone have other action items that we missed on that?
I think the only one would be for us to review just given that we have the election
kind of reelecting
officers for the court,
which is what we said in next month's meeting with
so
>> So so I have here just sort of okay. So
before the next meeting Mhmm.
Eric's resignation letter
That's December 1. It's December 1. That'll be turned to the town, and then they will turn it over to the PTC and the RTC. Mhmm.
December is that weird meeting, guys, where you actually start the meeting. I know ours is new, and I saw Sharon on there. So that's the meeting that starts,
and I will be sitting here. It's weird, but that's the way it works because you won't have a chair and vice chair.
So we just go through the call to order, comments from the public, communications,
and then there you go.
The first order of business that we will put on the agenda will be the selected chair, and then the chairperson
will take over the meeting. And then the vice chair and the secretary position will be then, and then that's it. And then it's a normal meeting. So it'll look weird, but that's just how it's done. Can I ask a clarification question about Eric's resignation? Yeah.
>> Given the election that just occurred and the fact that, like, I am
not affiliated
and that Sharon's also not affiliated, how does the makeup of who takes that like, does does the person that takes his seat need to be a Republican, or do we know how that have more than
>> four people of one party
on the board sitting on the board at the same time.
So
that's where, like, the minority representation.
So then with two of us being unaffiliated,
>> does it it doesn't matter. It can be either. It matters according to the secretary of state as far as we've been told. And that is that you were elected on the Democratic on it as was Sharon.
So for right now Okay. You count as Democrats.
So I think the statute is very clear, but that was the answer that we got
a while ago.
Gone back
about your unaffiliated status,
how that counts from minority representation.
But for right now, as far as we know, we have
four Democrats,
so that replacing Eric would have to be with an unaffiliated
or Republican
Okay.
Voter.
>> And I and I think as you appoint,
it just goes by their registered party affiliate. Right. So
We can appoint either. You can appoint either.
Correct. So if you would come in and you're unaffiliated, you were unaffiliated, but you were elected on the Democratic line, as Shannon says. You count as a Democrat.
Yep. I don't want to count.
Join the club. You just count. Join the club.
>> So the only other things are do we need normally, in January, we do Nick Caruso.
Do we need him for January so I can reach out? Do what would you prefer?
I do.
>> Well, are we gonna be in measuring budget? Yeah. Yeah. I feel budget is earlier, and and we're also trying to get through, like, updating the policies that we keep pushing, but, like, needed to. So So the but what is the, like, what is the So what I would have to do then is I would have to arrange, which is not a problem,
>> for one of the webinars through Kane, for Marci, and for Sharon because the new statute says they have to have that onboarding new
stuff. You know? There's professional development. Yeah.
Sharon's will probably count if that's what she chooses to go to
at the workshop. To be at the Yeah. No. I'm not at but, potentially, you would also need it for whoever is filling it. Correct. Correct. Yeah. So if if that's what you guys want, that's no problem. I won't do Nick. We'll just take care of the individual board members. Okay? I will do it. Say yes to that. Yeah. I just wanted to double check. Of the Unfortunately,
this year, there's not. That's okay. We usually do him then.
And then in
December or January,
Tuesday
afternoon,
actually, Eric mentioned the
Percy Cook Trail
information.
So
Mhmm. I will forward you
the information to look at in an email so you have a little bit. I know we've never talked about it here before.
Do you want that on December, or would you like me to wait till January? Because I did ask if there's a deadline looming. I think the question is more from the time side. The because I don't
>> Eric had wanted to bring the engineer and present it before he left, but it's okay. He's he's got documentation
in our packet. It shows you how far from the property line the the proposed trail would be.
I I'll get you those pages, or you can pull those off our packet. It does get pretty good,
information. Okay. And and just so you that information to our board? Or No. Eric Eric was trying to do that because he wanted to see it get
moved
along before he left. Okay. But
right now, just for an understanding is the entrance to the trail or the exit of trail the would be on the opposite side of the community garden over in the firehouse.
And
as it goes through the back, there are measurements of the distance between where they have the proposed trail and where the start of the soccer field is and then where the building
ends up being because the issue ends up being tracked.
Yeah. So how far away is it?
>> So December. What does it what does it do? I think it can be December. I just wanted to make sure there wasn't, like, someone that was coming to December. December. I'll put it on in December.
>> Okay. And then
Doris will be here in December as well so that you can be introduced to her. And that's everything that I have from you guys. Is there anything else that needs to be on there? I do. Yeah. Yeah. But I'm saying from this meeting, now moving forward. Can I can I suggest a permanent action item to the to
>> the
agenda?
Because, obviously, one of our board goals was to elevate
academic and social emotional for our students meant to put more of a focus on the students. And I think maybe as a reflection point at the end of every meeting, we should be asking ourselves,
what did we do to actually
>> promote that?
And that's great, Brie, which is why Taylor has started, and she told you December, January. You know, next to principals report there is professional development and curriculum. And because that's your goal,
we did make sure this year I've widened it, but you know? Yes. That every single If you're on pay with me, we can talk really good principles where she will absolutely be making Maybe we should just if possible, we could just add Yeah. Like, what the specific is for that month. Sure. We'll add it by the because you have it written out. So Right.
But, yeah, I can maybe we can just Right next to there, we'll tell you what the theme is. And the theme is that BL is December, and math is January. Right? I know that. Yes. So
Okay.
>> Anyone
else have anything else?
No? Motion to adjourn. Okay. Oh, you're taking this last. Yep.
>> Just Right along. First 20 2.
Anyone want a second hat?
You don't have a.
>> I'm gonna have to say that. Right. I'm I'm gonna.